---
title: 'Morning Dashboard'
date: '2021-08-13'
description: 'Idea for new React project'
---

I have recently started studying Web Development. After taking a few online courses, I needed to think of a self-made project I could work on. Focusing on the full stack, I knew I wanted to work with something that was quite large and could leverage everything that I had gathered from taking the online courses. 

Recently, I read two books that have really changed the way I go about my day. The first being What to Say When You Talk To Yourself (WTS) by Shad Helmstetter. This book contained something I already knew: what we believe, how we act, how we feel, and what we do, is rooted in how we are programmed. The logic of this is the following: Programming creates beliefs. Beliefs create attitudes. Attitudes create feelings. Feelings determine actions. Actions create results. This programming can be useful for children in order for them to begin healthy and necessary habits for adulthood. It can be devastating for adults that want to change. True change requires discipline and repetition. It is often times repetitive because in order for programming to stick, it needs to be reenforced over and over. The author suggests daily affirmations in order to reprogram our mind in order for it to work for us. The act of believing is the key point he tries to make. If you believe daily positive self-talk will work, it will. If you can't reprogram your way of thinking, your actions will never change.

I am about 2 months into the daily affirmations and I can see the results. This by no means removes hiccups, a slip in motivation, or road bumps. The daily affirmations allow me to get back on track when I fall off. I used to be able to get a few days in a row of really productive work in, but would fall off and return weeks or even months later. Now when I have a bad day, I get myself back together quick and continue on. The "I just don't feel like it." days are FAR fewer because my attitude that usually controls my feelings has changed. That daily programming adds up and I truly feel like a different person that wants to continue to work toward my goals. I can honestly say I feel like a different person because of this book. 

In addition to WTS, the next book I read in May almost perfectly balances this mental reprogramming with a physical one: The Power of Habit (POH) by Charles Duhigg. Where WTS reprograms the mind, Power of Habit reprograms the actions. Taking a break from work these past two years has allowed me to form some pretty bad habits. My sleep schedule was completely messed up, I quit eating regularly, lost an unhealthy amount of weight, sat around and watched Twitch way too much, and continued to put off finding out what I want to do for work. I knew I needed to change, but still struggled to find out how. The Power of Habit included some useful tips on how to identify your habits. This included how to notice the triggers that started the bad habit and how you can recognize those triggers and replace the usual action that proceeded it. 

Like all self-help books, this one book doesn't have the power to change a person by itself. Reading these two books together made a connection that I hadn't felt before. The psychology of programming our brains in WTS and the actions taken in POH, allowed me to attack my problem from both sides. The feeling that comes that is "I don't feel like it" isn't going to be solved by reading about habits. What to Say When You Talk to Yourself helps fight that battle with new programming. I feel so many people want to change the action without changing the mind and how it responds to "I don't feel like it."

This react project I am working on intends to solve this problem. Organizing your workday to battle both the bad habits, and the bad feelings that determine them. With a mix of daily affirmations and a dashboard to deconstruct your work objectives, it will help you start your day on the right path toward success.